# InvertedPendulum
Application of Model-Based Systems Engineering practices to the development of an Inverted Pendulum

Video of the Inverted Pendulum Balancing: https://youtu.be/Adzkz2kPocA

In this project, we apply a Model-Based Systems Engineering (MBSE)
approach towards the development of an inverted pendulum. This project
ultimately results in the creation of a physical hardware demonstration
that is created by applying the systems engineering V-model development
cycle. Furthermore, this project integrates multiple 'digital threads'
of relevant project information into a single source of truth MBSE model
and explores different options for linking system information such as
simulation data, 3D CAD model data, and datasheets.

An inverted pendulum is an inherently unstable system consisting of a
freely-swinging rod attached to a motorized cart, posing a complex
challenge for controls engineers through the design of a feedback loop
and system model to automatically balance the pendulum in an upright
position. Because of the system's complexity, this project was
undertaken as an opportunity to independently work through the product
lifecycle while applying systems engineering principles to deepen my
understanding of the tangible benefits of systems engineering in an
appropriately scoped challenge.

This MBSE approach utilizes the Systems Modeling Language (SysML) and
the Magic Systems of Systems Architect (MSOSA) platform to construct the
MBSE framework, MATLAB and Simulink to mathematically model the system
and control framework, and SolidWorks to physically model the system.
Each supporting software package is integrated into the MBSE model to
create an authoritative hub-and-spoke model for system analytics that
captures everything from system requirements to manufacturing and
performance data of a complete system in a single model.

To validate the proposed MBSE framework, a physical prototype of the
inverted pendulum created in the MBSE model was manufactured and tested.
This prototype served to validate the system design and was capable of
maintaining balance in the unstable system for over sixty seconds as set
forth in the project requirements.

In summary, this project contributes to advancing the state of the art
of digital engineering by exploring improved mechanisms for
interoperability of disparate engineering data packages into a single
information hub. Additionally, the application of systems engineering
principles to a complex system that spans multiple technical domains in
a shortened project lifecycle serves to demonstrate the enhanced
effectiveness of projects guided by systems engineering.

![Render1](https://github.com/MattPipan/InvertedPendulum/assets/62266817/ccf30eef-e922-4a52-b74f-680cc59b2bed)
